Go to Previous Versions
of
this Section

1. 2025 Alaska Stat. (here)
2. [2024 Alaska Stat.](https://law.justia.com/codes/alaska/2024/title-14/chapter-09/section-14-09-010/)
3. [2023 Alaska Stat.](https://law.justia.com/codes/alaska/2023/title-14/chapter-09/section-14-09-010/)
4. [View All Versions](https://law.justia.com/alaska/)

# 2025 Alaska Statutes  Title 14. Education, Libraries, and Museums  Chapter 09. Transportation of Pupils  Sec. 14.09.010. Transportation of students

**Universal Citation:**

AK Stat § 14.09.010 (2025)

Learn moreThis media-neutral citation is based
on the American Association of Law Libraries Universal Citation Guide and is not
necessarily the official citation.

**[Next](https://law.justia.com/codes/alaska/title-14/chapter-09/section-14-09-020/)**

(a) A school district that provides student transportation services for the transportation of students who reside a distance from established schools is eligible to receive funding for operating or subcontracting the operation of the transportation system for students to and from the schools within the student's transportation service area. Subject to appropriation, the amount of funding provided by the state for operating the student transportation system is the amount of a school district's ADM, less the ADM for the district's correspondence programs during the current fiscal year, multiplied by the per student amount for the school district as follows:

DISTRICTPER STUDENT AMOUNT

(2)

(1) for the school

for the school years beginning

year beginning on or after

July 1, 2011 July 1, 2012

Alaska Gateway $2,081 $2,148

Aleutians East311 321

Anchorage435 449

Annette Island182 188

Bering Strait 48 50

Bristol Bay2,6722,758

Chatham 280 289

Copper River1,5861,637

Cordova335 346

Craig423 437

Delta/Greely1,6561,709

Denali1,8081,866

Dillingham1,2181,257

Fairbanks817 843

Galena255 263

Haines626 646

Hoonah298 308

Iditarod211 218

Juneau604 623

Kake271 280

Kashunamiut 5 5

Kenai Peninsula 766 944

Ketchikan 727 750

Klawock 584 603

Kodiak Island 799 825

Kuspuk 654 675

Lake and Peninsula 384 396

Lower Kuskokwim 277 286

Lower Yukon 1 1

Matanuska-Susitna 910 939

Nenana 587 606

Nome 621 641

North Slope1,1201,156

Northwest Arctic 25 26

Pelican 72 74

Petersburg 374 386

Saint Mary's 193 199

Sitka 428 442

Skagway 36 37

Southeast Island1,1551,192

Southwest Region 598 617

Tanana 478 493

Unalaska 648 669

Valdez 735 759

Wrangell 701 723

Yakutat 744 768

Yukon Flats 264 272

Yukon/Koyukuk 299 309

Yupiit 2 2.

(b) The department shall adopt regulations that provide for oversight of and support to school districts in achieving a safe and cost-effective student transportation system. The regulations must include a requirement for contract terms of not less than three years, if feasible, standardized conditions and bid periods, and standards that ensure cost efficiencies and exclusions.

(c) \[Repealed, § 11 ch 9 SLA 2008.\]

(d) A school district that provides transportation services under this section shall provide transportation services to students attending a charter school operated by the district under a policy adopted by the district. The policy must

(1) be developed with input solicited from individuals involved with the charter school, including staff, students, and parents;

(2) at a minimum, provide transportation services for students enrolled in the charter school on a space available basis along the regular routes that the students attending schools in an attendance area in the district are transported; and

(3) be approved by the department.

(e) If a school district fails to adopt a policy under (d) of this section, the school district shall allocate the amount received for each student under (a) of this section to each charter school operated by the district based on the number of students enrolled in the charter school.

(f) Nothing in (d) of this section requires a school district to establish dedicated transportation routes for the exclusive use of students enrolled in a charter school or authorizes a charter school to opt out of a policy adopted by a school district for the purpose of acquiring transportation funding.

(g) In this section,

(1) “ADM” has the meaning given in AS 14.17.990;

(2) “district's ADM” means the sum of the ADMs in the district.

**[Next](https://law.justia.com/codes/alaska/title-14/chapter-09/section-14-09-020/)**

**Disclaimer:** These codes may not be the most recent version. [Alaska](https://law.justia.com/codes/states.html) may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources.


[Toggle button](https://law.justia.com/codes/alaska/title-14/chapter-09/section-14-09-010/#)

**Get free summaries of new  opinions delivered to your inbox!**

Enter Your Email

Sign Up

reCAPTCHA

Recaptcha requires verification.

protected by **reCAPTCHA**