# Alaska Administrative Code  Title 4 - Education and Early Development  Chapter 03 - State Board of Education  4 AAC 03.091 - Waivers

**Universal Citation:** [4 AK Admin Code 4 AAC 03.091](https://regulations.justia.com/citations.html)

Current through May 30, 2025


(a) Innovation in education requires
flexibility in applying regulations. A local school board may request a waiver
from a regulation in this title to implement an innovative program that leads
to improved student achievement.

(b) A waiver request from a local school
board must be submitted in writing to the department and must


(1) describe the innovative educational
program and how it will improve student achievement;

(2) specify the regulation to be
waived;

(3) provide criteria to
measure the improvement in student achievement; and

(4) specify the period of time for which the
waiver is requested.

(c)
In determining whether to grant the waiver, the board will consider the
materials submitted, recommendations of the department, and written and verbal
public comment.

(d) Except as
provided in (e) of this section, if the board finds by a preponderance of
evidence that the innovative educational program will improve student
achievement, the board may waive the regulation for a period specified by the
board.

(e) The board will not waive
a regulation required by state or federal law or necessary for health and
safety.

**Authority:** AS
14.07.060

**Disclaimer:** These regulations may not be the most recent version. Alaska may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources.


[Toggle button](https://regulations.justia.com/states/alaska/title-4/chapter-03/section-4-aac-03-091/#)

**Get free summaries of new  opinions delivered to your inbox!**

Enter Your Email

Sign Up

reCAPTCHA

Recaptcha requires verification.

protected by **reCAPTCHA**