# Alaska Administrative Code  Title 4 - Education and Early Development  Chapter 27 - Transportation of Pupils  4 AAC 27.086 - Competitive pupil transportation proposals

**Universal Citation:** [4 AK Admin Code 4 AAC 27.086](https://regulations.justia.com/citations.html)

Current through May 30, 2025


(a) All contracts
for pupil transportation awarded by a district school board must be based on
the competitive proposal process. A request for proposals must, at a minimum,
contain the following:

(1) a general
description of the

(A) required service
areas;

(B) number of routes and
runs;

(C) number, size, and age
limitation of school buses required;

(D) approximate mileage to be run;
and

(E) approximate number of
pupils to be transported;

(2) contract terms of not less than three
years, if feasible, and not more than five years;

(3) a statement that the contract is governed
by AS 14.09 and this chapter;

(4) a
statement that if a cancellation or termination of a contract occurs due to
deficiencies in performance by the contractor,


(A) the district, upon cancellation or
termination of the contract, may exercise the district's option to but should
be buy or lease from the contractor; and

(B) the contractor agrees to sell or lease to
the district any or all school buses and spare buses that, as of the date of
delivery or the date when the district gives 30 days' notice of cancellation
from the district to the contractor, are being used by the contractor for to-
and from-school transportation services;

(5) any reporting and document submittal
requirements, including the tracking of ridership and mileage;

(6) a liquidated damage clause due to lack of
performance; and

(7) fuel
adjustments.

(b) The
request for proposal for the basic to- and from-school transportation services
may include activity bus services and optional equipment if the activity bus
services and optional equipment costs are not included in the base costs of the
basic to- and from-school transportation services and the request for proposals
clearly itemizes contract costs as follows:


(1) costs of the basic to- and from-school
transportation services required to meet the minimum standards for Alaska
school buses adopted by reference under
4
AAC 27.110;

(2) costs of activity bus services; those
costs must be provided on a cost-per-bus, per-day, per-hour, and per-half-hour
basis; and

(3) costs of optional
equipment; those costs must be provided on a cost-per-bus basis.

(c) The district shall ensure that
all requests for proposals commence six months before the expiration date of
the current contract. Pre-bid conferences shall be held 30 days after the
release of the request for proposals. All requests for proposals must be due to
the district 14 days after the pre-bid conference and opened on that same day
in public at the hour and place stated in the request for proposals.

(d) After the district's school board action
to offer a transportation contract, and following any board actions on
petitions for reconsideration by proposers, the district school board shall
forward a copy of the written proposed contract and successful proposal to the
department not later than April 15 of the fiscal year preceding the first year
of the contract. In addition, a copy of the final signed written contract shall
be forwarded to the department not later than the first day of the
contract.

(e) Notwithstanding (c)
of this section, each district with an average daily membership of 4,500 or
more shall work with the department to align, bid, and remain on the same
five-year term cycle.

**Authority:** AS
14.07.020

AS 14.07.030

AS 14.07.060

AS
14.09.010

**Disclaimer:** These regulations may not be the most recent version. Alaska may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources.


[Toggle button](https://regulations.justia.com/states/alaska/title-4/chapter-27/section-4-aac-27-086/#)

**Get free summaries of new  opinions delivered to your inbox!**

Enter Your Email

Sign Up

reCAPTCHA

Recaptcha requires verification.

protected by **reCAPTCHA**