# Alaska Administrative Code  Title 4 - Education and Early Development  Chapter 27 - Transportation of Pupils  4 AAC 27.006 - Program requirements

**Universal Citation:** [4 AK Admin Code 4 AAC 27.006](https://regulations.justia.com/citations.html)

Current through May 30, 2025


(a) The purpose of the pupil transportation
program is to provide basic to-and from-school transportation
services.

(b) Districts shall use
the most cost efficient methods when developing and establishing both regular
and special education routes, procuring contractor services or equipment, and
other services related to basic to-and from-school transportation
services.

(c) Eligible expenditures
that may be charged to the pupil transportation program include only those
direct costs for operating and transporting pupils under the provisions of AS
14.09 and this chapter, and must be reported in accordance with
4
AAC 06.121(4).

**Authority:** AS
14.07.020

AS 14.07.030

AS 14.07.060

AS
14.09.010

**Disclaimer:** These regulations may not be the most recent version. Alaska may have more current or accurate information. We make no warranties or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained on this site or the information linked to on the state site. Please check official sources.


[Toggle button](https://regulations.justia.com/states/alaska/title-4/chapter-27/section-4-aac-27-006/#)

**Get free summaries of new  opinions delivered to your inbox!**

Enter Your Email

Sign Up

reCAPTCHA

Recaptcha requires verification.

protected by **reCAPTCHA**